An event is an immutable fact regarding something that occurred within our system.
When we talk about data records in the context of
stream processing and streaming data we're referring to events.
For example, the user clicks a button.
So click and then an event occurs, a click event.
We may emit an event to our data stream that captures the timestamp,
user ID, and click event.
The distinction of an event as an immutable fact is
critical especially in comparison to traditional data stores.
We say that an event is an immutable fact,
we mean that it cannot be changed once it has been created.
When I use the term data-store,
I'm referring to any place you might keep your data.
I use the term data-store instead of database specifically as a generic term.
A data-store can be anything from a file on your disk,
a table in a SQL database,
or a file and Cloud storage.
Databases like PostgreSQL are often built to store the state of an application and time.
So here we have a database,
could be MySQL, Postgres,
your whatever your favorite SQL database is,
it doesn't matter, and within this database we might have
a user table with a user ID and a favorite color.
In this case, the user's favorite color is brown.
Now what happens if we update that favorite color?
Let's say we set it to red.
Well, in a database table that value is now red.
There's no history that the user ever had the favorite color brown,
it's lost to time.
Same things happens if we update it to green,
we now have no history that the user ever so their favorite color as red,
and likewise if we update it to a blue,
we have no history that their favorite color was ever green, red, or brown.
This is a typical feature of many SQL databases.
If you want to have history,
you have to create it yourself in a separate table.
It's not common to be able to track history of
what values were used for a particular user in the past.
Message queues typically communicate commands to perform an action.
In comparison, invented systems react to the facts that are communicated to them.
So in this illustration on the screen you can see that we've sent a command,
send email to Bob through
our message queue which an email servers then receives this command and sends an email.
This is how traditional data stores work.
Again to reiterate, in comparison,
invented systems react to the facts that are communicated to them.
This communication is typically indirect.
As the user clicks,
we send out an action.
These are clicked somewhere on the screen,
we talked about what the user clicked but we aren't sending
a command or we're not telling a downstream system to do anything,
were simply describing something that occurred
on our actual device or in a different system.
This communication's typically indirect,
and the events that are emitted do not contain
information specifically targeting a downstream system.
Thinking of our data in these terms is a key component to
successfully designing and building streaming data systems.